[Docs] Documentation for implementing sync rules (#412)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

Each connector will have their own specific behaviors and implementations. When a connector is loaded, it stays in memory, so you can come up with any strategy you want to make it more efficient. You just need to be careful not to blow memory.

> ### Sync rules

Reviewer: General remark: this should be consistent with https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/sync-rules.html. For example, I presume the introductory details are the same.

Author: I think we want to have a more technical description here as the description in the official docs is very ui-focused IMO.

Reviewer: Definitely! But if there's anything useful here that isn't in the main docs, I think we should make a note to add it there too.

Author: Hmm, I'm not too sure about that. The main docs look like they're targeting users of connectors and the docs here target connector developers, which need some information, what's expected from them to implement and what not. I think we can copy this description, when we've a separate "How to build a connector" section in the main docs. 

WDYT?

Reviewer: That sounds right 👍.

#### Basic rules vs advanced rules

> Sync rules is another term for either basic or advanced rules. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sync rules are made up of basic and advanced rules. 
```

Basic rules are implemented generically on the framework-level and work out-of-the-box for every new connector. 
Advanced rules are specific to each data source. 

> You can learn more about the use cases of sync rules [here (Sync rules documentation)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/sync-rules.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about sync rules [in the Enterprise Search documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/sync-rules.html). 
```

Example:

For MySQL we've implemented advanced rules to pass custom SQL queries directly to the corresponding MySQL instance.

> This has the advantage of offloading a lot of the filtering to the specific data source, which normally results in a reduction of the amount of data coming back from the data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This offloads a lot of the filtering to the data source, which helps reduce data transfer.
```

Just simplifying a long sentence.

Also, data sources usually have highly optimized and specific filtering capabilities you may want to expose to the users of your connector.

> You can take a look at the `get_docs` method in the [MySQL connector](../connectors/sources/mysql.py) to see an advanced rules implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at the `get_docs` method in the [MySQL connector](../connectors/sources/mysql.py) to see an advanced rules implementation.
```

Minor copyedit: often removing "you can", makes the sentence more direct and reduces sentence length. :)

#### How to implement advanced rules

> When implementing a new connector you've to follow the API of the [BaseDataSource](../connectors/source.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When implementing a new connector follow the API of the [BaseDataSource](../connectors/source.py).
```

The custom implementation for advanced rules is usually located inside the `get_docs` function:

```python
async def get_docs(self, filtering=None):
    if filtering and filtering.has_advanced_rules():
        advanced_rules = filtering.get_advanced_rules()
        # your custom advanced rules implementation
    else:
        # default fetch all data implementation 
```

> Here you can pass f.e. custom queries to a database or something similar.

Reviewer 2: is `f.e.` "front end?" 
Probably best to avoid abbreviations or acronyms where possible, for maximum clarity.

Author: "for example". Would you use "e.g." here?

Reviewer: I'd avoid both abbreviations, and use the full phrase "for example".

Author: Was adjusted with a recommendation.

> The structure of the advanced rules is dependent on your implementation and your concrete use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of the advanced rules depends on your implementation and your concrete use case.
```

Simplification

For MySQL the advanced rules structure looks like this:
You specify databases on the top level, which contain tables, which specify a custom query.

Example:

```json
{
  "database_1": {
    "table_1": "SELECT ... FROM ...;",
    "table_2": "SELECT ... FROM ...;"
  },
  "database_2": {
    "table_1": "SELECT ... FROM ...;"
  }
}
```

> Note that the framework calls `get_docs` with the parameter `filtering` being of type `Filter`, which is located in [byoc.py](../connectors/sources/mysql.py).

Reviewer: The link says the parameter is located in `byoc.py`, but the file linked to is called `mysql.py`.

> Note that the framework calls `get_docs` with the parameter `filtering` being of type `Filter`, which is located in [byoc.py](../connectors/sources/mysql.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the framework calls `get_docs` with the parameter `filtering` of type `Filter`, which is located in [byoc.py](../connectors/sources/mysql.py).
```

> The `Filter` class provides convenient methods to extract advanced rules from the filter and to check, whether advanced rules are present.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Filter` class provides convenient methods to extract advanced rules from the filter and to check whether advanced rules are present.
```

#### How to validate advanced rules

> For validating advanced rules the framework takes the list of validators returned by the method `advanced_rules_validators` and calls them in the order they appear in that list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate advanced rules the framework takes the list of validators returned by the method `advanced_rules_validators` and calls them in the order they appear in that list.
```

> On default this list is empty in the [BaseDataSource](../connectors/source.py) as advanced rules are always specific to the connector implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, this list is empty in the [BaseDataSource](../connectors/source.py) as advanced rules are always specific to the connector implementation.
```

> You can plug in custom validators by implementing a class containing a `validate` method, which accepts one parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plug in custom validators by implementing a class containing a `validate` method, which accepts one parameter.
```

Again this is a little subjective, so feel free to use "you can" whenever you want but consider eliminating it in longer sentences, for brevity. 🤓

Author: Sounds way better, will adjust it!

The framework expects the custom validators to return a `SyncRuleValidationResult`, which can be found in [validation.py](../connectors/filtering/validation.py).

```python
class MyValidator(AdvancedRulesValidator):
    
    def validate(self, advanced_rules):
        # custom validation logic
        return SyncRuleValidationResult(...)
```

> Note that the framework will call `validate` with the parameter `advanced_rules` being of type `dict`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the framework will call `validate` with the parameter `advanced_rules` of type `dict`.
```

Now you can return a list of validator instances in `advanced_rules_validators`:

```python
class MyDataSource(BaseDataSource):

    def advanced_rules_validators(self):
        return [MyValidator()]
```

> The framework will handle the rest like scheduling validation, calling the custom validators and storing the corresponding results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framework will handle the rest; scheduling validation, calling the custom validators and storing the corresponding results.
```

> #### How to provide custom basic rule validation

Reviewer 2: I haven't been watching closely - is this something we've intentionally introduced? 
In 8.6 in the ruby connectors, the intent was for Advanced Rules (and basic pre-processing) to be customizable, but for (post-processing) Basic Rules to be consistent across all connectors. 

I don't think we really want to allow source-specific validations for basic rules - that makes them much less "basic".

Author: We've default validations and further down I state, that it's discouraged to override them. I thought if people want to intentionally override the validation (for example removing the regex validator or add another one) then we should describe how to do that. But that's just my personal opinion of documenting this explicitly, as it's possible to override it anway, also happy when we remove it 👍

Reviewer: > further down I state, that it's discouraged to override them.

Maybe this should be a warning at the top of this section?

Author: Moved the warning to the top. WDYT @seanstory ?

The framework already provides default validations for basic rules.

> If you want to extend the default validation you can provide custom basic rules validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extend the default validation, provide custom basic rules validators.
```

Reviewer: Again, cutting out these introductory phrases makes the sentence much easier to read.

There are two possible ways to validate basic rules:

> - Every rule gets validated in isolation (extend the class `BasicRuleValidator` located in [validation.py](../connectors/filtering/validation.py)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Every rule gets validated in isolation**. Extend the class `BasicRuleValidator` located in [validation.py](../connectors/filtering/validation.py):
```

Bold for emphasis, and giving the action its own sentence, without parenthesis.

    ```python
    class MyBasicRuleValidator(BasicRuleValidator):
        
        @classmethod
        def validate(cls, rule):
            # custom validation logic
            return SyncRuleValidationResult(...)
    ```
- Validate the whole set of basic rules, if you want to validate constraints on the set of rules, f.e. to detect duplicate or conflicting rules (extend the class `BasicRulesSetValidator`located in [validation.py](../connectors/filtering/validation.py)):
    ```python
    class MyBasicRulesSetValidator(BasicRulesSetValidator):
        
        @classmethod
        def validate(cls, set_of_rules):
            # custom validation logic
            return SyncRuleValidationResult(...)
    ```

> If you want to preserve the default basic rule validations and extend it with your custom logic you can override `basic_rules_validators` like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To preserve the default basic rule validations and extend it with your custom logic override `basic_rules_validators` like this:
```

```python
class MyDataSource(BaseDataSource):

    @classmethod
    def basic_rules_validators(self):
        return BaseDataSource.basic_rule_validators() 
                + [MyBasicRuleValidator, MyBasicRulesSetValidator]
```

> It's not recommended to fully override `basic_rule_validators` as you'll lose the default validations.

Reviewer: Maybe this should be a warning at the top of this section?

> It's not recommended to fully override `basic_rule_validators` as you'll lose the default validations.

Reviewer: Maybe this should be a warning at the top of this section?

> It's not recommended to fully override `basic_rule_validators` as you'll lose the default validations.

Author: Good point, will move it up!

> Again the framework will handle the rest like scheduling validation, calling the custom validators and storing the corresponding results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again the framework will handle the rest: scheduling validation, calling the custom validators and storing the corresponding results.
```
